In this demo,
we will be installing software with the use of Systems Manager Run
Command on our managed EC2 Windows instance.
So we find ourselves back in these Systems Manager
console, and scroll down to Run Command.
Here we can see currently running commands. Depending on how busy an
environment is, this list can be empty, like now, or very busy.
Remember, also,
Systems Manager is a regional service. If this here doesn't look
right, make sure you're in the correct region.
The Command History tab shows us all the commands that
have run in the past on our managed instances. This is
very handy for auditing purposes.
Going back to Commands, we can run a command by pressing the orange button
here. Lots of commands are already available. For this demo, we want to show
how to install software on our Windows EC2 instance.
Best way to do this is using PowerShell, of course.
So let's filter this list for commands that support Windows and also
by those commands where the prefix begins with AWS‑Run. We could
also just click through this whole list,
but I know that the command to run a PowerShell script starts with this prefix
here. Now, the next step is important for user experience.
We can click on the name of the command,
but that won't select it at all. That will only open the command's definition
up in a separate tab. Or, to actually select this command,
we can select the radio button next to the name.
So let's do that. Scrolling down, we now need to
configure what we want this command to do.
First of all, we need to select the document version to run.
In a lot of cases,
it will be whatever someone decided the default version should be.
But if that doesn't fit our use case, we can change this to any other version.
Next, we have this Commands parameter in the Command parameters section.
This is where our PowerShell script goes. We don't have to
worry about any escaping of code or anything, just straight
copy and paste of our code.
So, a quick explanation what I'm doing here.
This code is used to install the package manager Chocolatey on this
Windows instance. Chocolatey is a great tool to install all kinds
of other software on Windows devices.
Definitely check it out if you're not familiar with it. So this tiny script
will install Chocolatey. We won't need a working directory, and we can keep
the Execution Timeout at the default of 1 hour.
I don't expect this to require more than a few seconds,
but if we had a process requiring more than 1 hour,
then we could absolutely bump this up to 48 hours.
Next, we need to select where we want this command to run,
either by specifying the instance tag,
the AWS resource group, our resource assigned, or
manually picking the instances.
And that's exactly what I'm going to do here by selecting the
Windows EC2 instance here. The command now has enough
information to execute on a single instance.
If we ran this command across many instances,
then under Rate control we could control on how many
instances in parallel we want this to execute.
And after how many failures, we want to deem the whole
execution to have been a failure.
Commands can send their output to S3 buckets,
which is very helpful as the console output will be
truncated at 2500 characters.
If we require the full output and expected this to be more than 2500
characters, we should definitely do this; otherwise,
all of that output is gone. Right now in this case, this
is fine, and I deselect the box here.
Alternatively,
the output could also be sent to CloudWatch logs. Depending on the scenario,
especially in production environments, I recommend
you store command output somewhere.
Commands can also send their status messages to SNS topics.
Failures, successes, and other status updates can be sent to SNS, and
from there, be used to execute other workflows.
This last drop‑down is quite handy for repetitive tasks.
We can copy of the AWS command line from here,
save it in a script somewhere, and then in the future don't have to come
back into the console to execute the same command again.
Let's click Run and just wait a couple of seconds.
You can come up here,
refresh, and see that the status has already changed to Success.
The whole execution only took 9 seconds, and clicking on the instance ID, we can also see the output of our PowerShell script here.